The Orthodox Battle Cry of Ressentiment
Levinas’s thought is often reduced to set of slogans[ Critchley, Five Problems,] which occludes the relativistic dynamics within his wordplay. The other person is often characterized as Most High, or, as Cohen claims[ Cohen, Richard A. Elevations, p.183.] in his chapter “G-d in Levinas: The Justification of Justice and Philosophy”:
This is perhaps the central claim of all Levinas’s thought, about which his entire work revolves: the face of the other manifests and is manifest in a moral height which is the dimension of G-d, the revelation of G-d. Prophecy, revelation, occurs between interlocutors.”
Nevertheless, he flattens Levinas’s thought to a set of moral platitudes:
It is quite simple: it is better to be good than anything else. It is better to help others than to help ourselves[ Richard A. Cohen. Ethics, Exegesis, and Philosophy: Interpretation after Levinas. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2001, P. 11.]
The center of Levinas’s constellations of metaphors text is often hard to pinpoint, and to identify one point as being most central produces an image distorted by the particular gravity of that focus: an upright stance of height and a straightforward relation can seem to elevate a right opinion, the orthodox source of truth.  A better measurement of Levinas’s semantics, however, is the iterative recurrence of terms and their juxtaposition among others within semantic constellations. One calculates the meaning of the phrase Most High through understanding the dimensions of the superlative adverb and the vertical adjective.
Furthermore, Cohen wrongly characterizes Levinas as someone who issues perscriptive commands or moral maxims.  Instead, what Levinas always attempts to do is to show how our relations with others and others is always embedded in every part of existence.  That is, he attempts to demonstrate how all of our “so commonplace”[ Levinas, Totality, p53.] experiences are already bent eccentrically by the moral curvature of otherness, already bent from the straight line of straightforwardness or the right angle of height.
Moreover, Cohen, along with many other commentators of Levinas, have a poor understanding of the idea of what a “dimension” is.  Their knowledge of geometry seems to end at Euclidean axioms and Cartesian grids, a geometry based on the an assumption on non-intersecting parallel lines and triangles whose internal angles measure the same as two right angles.  Levinas, however, very clearly articulates ethical geometry through non-Euclidean geometry, namely that of an n-ply Riemann manifold that underlies the spacetime theorized by Einstein.  Peperzak does a fine job of articulating the curvatures of  circles[ Peperzak, p. 149.] and hyperbolas[ Peperzak, 183] within Levinas’s text but the Cohen’s lines and “angles of diagonals[ Ibid, p. 137. Ethical priority occurs as the moral height of the other person, the angle of a ‘‘diagonal,’’ an asymmetry cutting across the circuits of being, essence, identity, manifestation, principles – in brief, over all the circuits of self-sameness, the sphere of the ego or of being]” and Bettina Bergo’s “parabolas[ “Levinas' ontology resembles the figure of two parabolas intersecting at their bases ”Bergo, p. 59]” are their own formulations. In any case, all of these geometric forms can be consider projections Riemann manifolds on flat thematic space.
Furthermore, the metaphor of height is linked to other correlate metaphors, in Levinas’s text and in general.  George Lakoff and Mark Johnson explain that “orientational metaphors … arise from the fact that we have bodies of the sort we have and that they function as they do in our physical environment”[ Lakoff and Johnson, Metaphors we Live By].  That is, height is grounded in embodiment, which is in turn grounded in weight, in the depth of gravity, gravity which curves spacetime.
We will discuss to these geometric and physical aanalyses in the next chapter .


parabola is a conic section  flat cone?
